---
layout: post
title: "My goals for 2013: Investing in fun"
date: 2013-01-01 21:08:14
---
Benjamin Franklin once said:

> An investment in knowledge pays the best interest.

I'd like that idea to be the focal point of my 2013 - but with a subtle twist:

> An investment in **fun** pays the best dividends.

This year, I'd like to focus less on administration, marketing, profitability, customer support, etc. and more on simply making fun experiences. While it might not pay off economically right away, I believe it is worth it in the long run.

Here's my list of goals for 2013.

* Become better at drawing. I must be able to draw a cool cartoon game character without breaking a sweat.
* Test the idea of "alone time". Find out whether it is worthwhile. Carry out 3 "alone trips" of minimum 48 hours each.
* Make one new revenue generating game.
* Make at least two games where I've drawn all art myself.
* Participate in 1 game jam (Ludum Dare perhaps).
* Make a simple live network multiplayer game.
* Name and establish Project Snowflake (a secret project!).
* Read 8 books. I should allocate reading time in my schedule to achieve this.
* Go on a trip abroad. Maybe I should visit my friend Morten in Hong Kong?
* Get better at waking up early. It is good for me! Get up before 7am on 150 days.
* Write at least 60 entries in my private journal.
* Make a game with [Unity](http://unity3d.com/).

Admittedly, this is an ambitious list. And it focuses far more on work compared to last year's list that had more entries related to personal pleasures. But that's fine.

Wish me luck :-)
